“The Role of Data Science in Game Development” Introduction and Background of the Technology: Data science is an interdisciplinary field that uses a combination of techniques from statistics, data analysis, and machine learning to extract insights and knowledge from data. Data science aims to identify patterns in data and use them to make predictions about future events. This information can then be used to make informed decisions and plan strategically. Data science can be applied in a wide range of industries where data is available. Data Science does have many applications in the real world that almost everyone can benefit from. Some applications are in healthcare, transportation, sports, government, e-commerce, social media, financial technology, marketing, fraud detection, and gaming. Data science is an important tool in game development. It allows our developers to analyze player behavior and various player-related variables such as age group, gender, location, and time spent on gaming. This information can be used to create new games and improve existing ones based on player preferences. Data science can also be used for predictive analysis to anticipate when customers might cancel their subscriptions and take action to prevent them from leaving. Additionally, data science techniques such as data mining can help increase the efficiency of games. Objectives of the Topic: Data Science needs information from a player’s data to make a gamer’s dream into a reality and be immersed into the game. For that dream to come through, algorithms and specific calculations is needed for that to happen. to develop, test and implement new ideas and concepts. to discover transferable algorithms that can be applied to the game. to collect extensive user data to train deep learning algorithms. to create mathematical models and automated tools for game analytics and point tracking to utilize data from players on social networks to provide engaging and unique experiences for gamers. to identify commonalities and generalize methods that can be applied across multiple games and systems. Scope of the Topic To analyze what are the roles of data science in game development. to identify what kind of data from players or users on social networks is used to provide engaging and unique experiences for other gamers. to identify commonalities and generalize methods that can be applied across multiple games and systems. To identify the steps of the Philippine government toward the data science sector and in-game development as well to show different data gathering methods data scientists is using to improve them.