[4:39 PM] John Raymond  Bataan

"ICEBREAKER"

 

Word Search

Correct Answer 

Battle field, Over watch, Minecraft, Valorant, Dota, GTA

 

"DATA SCIENCE IN GAME DEVELOPMENT"

 

-TABLE OF CONTENTS

-INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND OF THE TOPIC     

-OBJECTIVES OF THE TOPIC 

-SCOPE OF THE TOPIC

-USES AND FUNCTIONS

-IMPORTANCE AND BENEFITS

-LITERATURE REVIEWS

-DATA SCIENCE INTHE PHILIPPINES

-LITERATURE REVIEWS

-DATA SCIENCE IN THE PHILIPPINES

-GOVERNMENT PLANS ON DATA SCIENCE

-SUMMARY

-CONCLUSION

 



INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND OF THE TOPIC

 

Data science is an interdisciplinary field that uses algorithms, procedures, and processes to examine

large amounts of data in order to uncover hidden patterns, generate insights, and direct decision-making

 

OBJECTIVES THE STUDY

-to analyse what are the roles of data science in game development

-to identify what kind of data from players or users on social networks is used to provide engaging and 

   unique experience for other gamers

-to identify commonalities and generalize methods that can be applied across multiple games and systems

-To identify the steps of the Philippine government towards the data science sector and in game development as well

-to show different data gathering methods data scientists is using to update their games

 



SCOPE OF THE STUDY

 

This study will cover the fundamental concepts of data science, including what it is and how it is

used in different fields. Specifically, the study will focus on the use of data science in game development,

with a particular emphasis on its uses and functions in the Philippines.

 

-Data science is a field of study that uses various tools, techniques, and methodologies.

-Data science is the process of collecting, processing, and analyzing data.

-Data science involves a variety of roles and responsibilities for data scientists, engineers, and other professionals.

-Data science tasks include data cleaning, visualization, machine learning, and statistical analysis.

-Data science is used to improve game design, user experience, and player engagement.

-Data science is essential for game development, such as player profiling, gameplay analysis, predictive modeling, and fraud detection.

-The study will explore the challenges and opportunities of data science and game development in the Philippines

 



HISTORY OF DATA SCIENCE

 

THESE ARE THE BRIEF HISTORY OF DATA SCIENCE

1960, 1962, 1974, 1989, 1997, 2001                                                                CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION

 

The gaming industry is growing exponentially, with more active users and more complex infrastructure. Top-level visualization

and design techniques, visual effects, graphic elements, and augmented reality effects provide customers with a high level of

satisfaction. Data science has entered various industries and improved the principles of their functioning forever. It has

brought various businesses to a qualitatively new level of their development. The industry of gaming is no exception here.

Moreover, data science techniques and methodologies have become integral parts of games development, design, operation,

and many other stages of their functioning

 

 

REFERENCES

 

https://www.pna.gov.ph/articles/1148479\ 
https://medium.com/@-TutortAcademy/data-science-in-gaming-357c38c690cc 
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/data-science-analytics-video-games-development-subhodip-pal 
https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2021/05/data-science-in-gaming-industry/ 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666557321000252 
https://www.precisely.com/blog/datagovernance/top-5-data-mining-techniques 


Data Science in Gaming

Gaming companies have become an integral part of the global entertainment industry, with users spending more time than ever before in…

[4:39 PM] John Raymond  Bataan

“The Role of Data Science in Game Development”

 

Introduction and Background of the Technology:

 

Data science is an interdisciplinary field that uses a combination of techniques from statistics, data analysis, and machine

learning to extract insights and knowledge from data. Data science aims to identify patterns in data and use them to make 

predictions about future events. This information can then be used to make informed decisions and plan strategically.

Data science can be applied in a wide range of industries where data is available. Data Science does have many applications

in the real world that almost everyone can benefit from. Some applications are in healthcare, transportation, sports, government, 

e-commerce, social media, financial technology, marketing, fraud detection, and gaming.

 

Data science is an important tool in game development. It allows our developers to analyze player behavior and various player-related 

variables such as age group, gender, location, and time spent on gaming. This information can be used to create new games and improve 

existing ones based on player preferences. Data science can also be used for predictive analysis to anticipate when customers might cancel 

their subscriptions and take action to prevent them from leaving. Additionally, data science techniques such as data mining can help 

increase the efficiency of games.

 

Objectives of the Topic:

Data Science needs information from a player’s data to make a gamer’s dream into a reality and be immersed into the game. For that dream 

to come through, algorithms and specific calculations is needed for that to happen.

 

to develop, test and implement new ideas and concepts.

to discover transferable algorithms that can be applied to the game.

to collect extensive user data to train deep learning algorithms.

to create mathematical models and automated tools for game analytics and point tracking

to utilize data from players on social networks to provide engaging and unique experiences for gamers.

to identify commonalities and generalize methods that can be applied across multiple games and systems.

 



Scope of the Topic

 

To analyze what are the roles of data science in game development.

 

to identify what kind of data from players or users on social networks is used to provide engaging and unique experiences for other gamers.

to identify commonalities and generalize methods that can be applied across multiple games and systems.

To identify the steps of the Philippine government toward the data science sector and in-game development as well

to show different data gathering methods data scientists is using to improve them. 
